Human beings developed a system of instincts to obsess about their self-esteem
which is the very attribute that turned them into social animals.

The instinct of self-esteem tends to make the brain falsely regard a person's
self-esteem as a matter of life-or-death which is the reason behind
personality disorders (clusters B and C) and most of neuroses in the world
especially the ones that are harder to heal.

Despite this instinct has been necessary for the survival of human groups in prehistory,
self-esteem is not always necessary for survival of people especially in the modern era.
Right now it has become the main reason behind most human suffering, including
anger, depression, anxiety, suicide, murder and rape.

Self-esteem is what makes ownership a perceived reality by people, despite ownership is
just an imagination.
Human relationships and especially marriages are a theatre of this instinct.
It is the engine behind patriotism, morality, conflicts and religions.

If this instinct is removed from a human mind via brain surgery, that person will stop
being mainly social.
If it is removed from the brain of a child via genetic engineering, that child might not
cry or bond with their parents!
It would be impossible for them to get angry, feel sadness, depression or major anxiety!
They wouldn't become competitive, jealous or Machiavellian either.
Although they might feel stress in actual scenarios of life-or-death.
But most of us would not want to go through so much change, do we?

Self-esteem operates based on ownership and classes and hierarchies;
if an adult suffers from neurosis because of their self-esteem, a hard but hugely
relieving way would be to disbelieve in the beliefs they have which involve determinig
worth of themselves or that of others.

A person might believe if I do X I am worthy of applause or if I do Y, I am worthy of
punishment. As if those who do X are worthier, in higher class than those who do Y!
The instinct of self-esteem is sensitive to this kind of thinking and it will certainly
intrude in their process of thinking with emotions, especially if that person is a
Highly Sensitive Person (HSP)!

If the person revises these kinds of axiological beliefs and become indifferent to them,
their defence mechanisms will automatically fall.
